[distant siren wails]
Need some help over here!
- Who called in SWAT?
- Just a precaution.
They still haven't found
the shooter yet.
They need to stay out there.
not in here.
Officer down.
You know the drill.
- 16 gauge in the right AC.
- Definitely needs an airway.
Can you handle that bleeding?
Need a sponge stick
for the back.
Dana. 100 of ketamine
and get some 4x4s on a kelly.
You guys are doing a great job.
Keep it up.
Hang in there. Richie.
You're in good hands.
- You're gonna be okay. man.
- Hey. guys.
Back it up.
We're trying to work here.
Come on.
Both of youse. go.
And chest tube output
is minimal.
- Good for cardiothoracic ICU.
- Nice. Okay.
As soon as transpo
can lend us a hand.
What's up with the SWAT team?
Maybe they think
the shooter's coming here.
- Shit. is that true?
- What?
My kid's in the break room.
They think the shooter's
heading this way?
Anything is possible.
Don't spread rumors.
I'm taking this one to the OR.
[indistinct PA announcement]
How are you doing?
Yeah. I'm good.
You?
I'm good.
- How much blood are we getting?
- I don't know.
I hope it's enough.
We're supposed to stop here
and stay between 10:00
and 2:00.
- Where's 12?
- I think the pilot's 12.
I think we just stay back.
and they bring the blood to us.
I think.
- Here.
- Thank you.
Yep.
Do we take these
to our supply room
- in Behavioral Health?
- Trauma rooms first.
Then we'll make our way out
to the patients in the hub.
- That the O-neg delivery?
- Yeah. straight from the roof.
Jesse. hang a unit.
then right up to the OR.
Who else needs blood?
Everybody.
Leave us four units.
four next door.
and then check in
with Robby and Abbot.
Okay. I've got next door.
- Blood's here.
- All right.
Squeeze one in
as fast as you can.
Bag for me.
- You guys need blood?
- No. not just yet.
Leave it with Dana.
Hey. Whitaker.
How you doing?
Yeah. fine.
Ask for help if you need it.
I can't see the cords.
Let's bag him.
Sorry. I'm used
to the GlideScope.
Spoiled by technology.
Dana. you got
a bougie back there?
Completely out.
Used them all up.
- Is he awake?
- He was. Now he's sedated.
- Should be intubated by now.
- Yeah. what's his pulse ox?
All right.
except for his partner.
all of you into BH-2 now.
You can watch from the window.
but you need to zip it. capisce?
Oh. God.
Bridget. thank God.
Night shift to the rescue.
What the hell happened
to your eye?
Just another happy customer.
- Looks a lot worse than it is.
- Yeah. right.
I tried to get here sooner.
but it is gridlocked out there.
It's not much better in here.
Did you hear anything
about the shooter?
They may have slipped away in
the crowd with all this chaos.
- Hey. where do you need me?
- North is yellow.
- Keep an eye on the new kids.
- Got it.
You holler if you're in trouble.
Yes. ma'am.
Jamie. what do you need?
IVs on everyone.
- Hi. I'm Dr. King.
- Buster Pirelli.
I take it you're
a children's entertainer.
Impressive observational skills.
Well. no active bleeding.
Can you tell me your pain
on a scale of 1 to 10?
At least a 3.
And can you wiggle your fingers?
Uh-huh.
The... the other hand.
Oh.
Well. it doesn't seem
like you have a broken bone.
but we're gonna put you
on some IV antibiotics
and some pain meds.
Got it.
You. uh. see who shot you?
No. I'm not even sure which
direction the bullet came from.
Hey. am I going to lose
any dexterity? Like...
It's too soon to tell.
but probably not.
[sighs] I make
balloon animals for a living.
Two birthday parties booked
every Saturday. Sunday
for the next year. so...
Wow. you must really love kids.
Not really.
Okay. you're gonna feel
a little pinprick here.
[screams] Fuck me!
Uh. it's... it's in. It's just
so we can give you antibiotics.
Oh.
That hurt just as bad
as when I got shot.
You put in an IO?
- [groans]
- Yeah.
Um. don't worry. sir.
There will be no more pain.
Okay.
Whitaker. um. team huddle.
[sighs]
- Join us. will you?
- Mm-hmm.
Oh. my God.
Okay. um. why'd you do that?
Dr. Robby said
everyone gets an IO.
If they are unconscious
or unresponsive.
If the patient is
awake and alert.
it's just a standard IV.
not an IO.
Unless it's a mime.
They can't scream.
Lidocaine for the clown.
More at the door.
Is this ever gonna end?
Pardon. Coming through.
Bleed and bandage it.
Bring him out.
To the other side?
Ah. too much blood.
Move that kelly
to the right a little bit.
- Any better?
- Not really.
- Radial pulse?
- Still has it.
Maybe a little weaker.
I can try and give you a bubble.
Yeah. yeah. go for it.
No. nothing.
I'm not seeing anything.
Okay. let's bag him.
I want to prep the neck.
You don't have a bougie.
I have an 11 blade and a prayer.
Without a bougie. you could
create a false passage
on top of the trachea
and kill him.
- You're doing a crike?
- Yep.
No skin hooks. no bougie...
old school.
I got a tactical airway
in my bag here.
- What is that?
- It's a control crike kit.
Oh. that's perfect.
Use that on the battlefield.
Works in the pitch-dark
when you're under fire.
I can do these
with my eyes closed.
- [chuckles]
- For you.
Okay.
The knife leaves
a trach hook behind.
so you can't miss. right?
Just...
good.
You slide in the introducer.
Okay.
Feel the tracheal rings.
Good.
Bob's your uncle.
- That was incredibly fast.
- Eh...
Balloon is up.
- Why don't we stock these?
- No room in the budget.
Yellow on end-tidal.
[laughter]
- It's okay now?
- Yeah.
- Thank you. Dr. Abbot.
- [knocking on window]
Okay. let's pack
the oral cavity with Kerlix
and see how fast Head and Neck
can take him up to the OR.
Great job. everybody.
What else do you got
in your go bag?
Oh. just wait and see.
[camera shutter clicking]
[sighs] Javadi. this is Sally.
What does she need?
Gunshot wound
to the back at T11.
Good pulse. but probable
spinal cord injury.
- Can you move your legs?
- I'm trying.
Am I paralyzed?
There's some hope for recovery.
Keep her on the backboard
and monitor
for intra-abdominal hemorrhage.
and neuro-ICU
will triage to CT. okay?
Sally. pinprick
right here. okay?
Walsh knows about the case.
They're holding an OR.
And the hits keep coming.
Let's go.
- [groans]
- Who do you have?
Semiconscious.
only responds to pain.
- Decent carotid.
- Strip him.
Let's go.
Ah. left upper-quadrant
entrance.
[yelling]
Hold him down.
Grab his foot! Grab his foot!
Whoa. gun! Gun!
He's going for his gun!
Get down. get down.
[all shouting]
Stay down.
Sig P365 9 mil.
- Driver's license?
- He just got here.
Not responding to pain now.
All clear.
- You sure?
- He's unconscious.
Everybody back to work.
Agonal breathing.
He needs an airway.
- Working on an IO.
- Drawing up ketamine and sux.
Here. have at it.
Concealed carry permit.
We'll run his ID.
These wounds are too big
for a 9.
Failed IO.
Guy's huge.
Needle won't reach the bone.
He needs induction meds
and blood.
I'm having
the same problem here.
I don't see anything usable
for an IV.
- Robby.
- What?
Guy needs access. but the IO
won't reach the humerus.
Proximal tibia?
Yes?
Yeah.
Tibia's not great access.
You can only get a liter
an hour down there.
You get what you get.
[ankle monitor blaring]
God damn it!
Whatever that is.
can you please turn it off?
- I can't hear myself think!
- Stable for the ICU.
Get her up.
I'll be right fucking back.
Copy that.
[blaring continues]
I already have one.
Keep that away from me.
It's not for you.
[blaring continues]
This is the monitoring center.
We see that you're not
in your inclusion zone.
Do you have permission...
[crowd gasping. murmuring]
- Show's over.
- Uh...
are you gonna get
in trouble for that?
Probably.
Hey.
What's going on out there?
A lot of people were hurt
at the festival.
I need to use the bathroom.
- I told him to use the sink.
- What is wrong with you?
Would you rather
I take him out there?
Hang on.
I'll be right back. okay?
[door opens. closes]
Here.
- What's that?
- It's a urinal.
- You pee in it.
- I think I'll just hold it in.
Pull out.
I found a 4 blade.
This is better.
Shit.
I lost the light.
The battery must be dead.
This one's dead. too.
Anybody have a laryngoscope
with a light that still works?
- We will check.
- Check quick.
This guy's paralytics
are wearing off.
Keep bagging.
Give me a 7.0 ET tube.
He's a big guy.
He needs an 8.
- Not for this.
- Number 7.
- What are you doing?
- Tactile intubation.
My index finger goes
into the vallecula.
And my middle finger will guide
the tube past the epiglottis.
But if you hit the esophagus.
he's toast.
You told us never to pass
a tube unless we see
- the vocal cords.
- Correct. Not today.
If I stay in the midline.
I should be able to get it
past the cords.
Okay.
Balloon up.
Bag him.
- Looks good on the end-tidal.
- Slick move. boss.
No pulse.
Start compressions.
OK. Get him up.
Try to get him back
with two liters.
That is as much
as we can afford per patient.
Leg is too slow; upper arm is
five times as fast.
Best that we can do.
Keep at it. We'll get him back.
Robby. need help here!
- Langdon!
- Keep squeezing.
[indistinct chatter]
How are you making out?
[sighs] Lots of emails
and photos coming in
from concerned families.
It'll be easier
once they've entered
every patient's MCI number.
Here we go.
Look familiar?
MCI-7.
His name is Vincent Rivera.
He must have had friends
or family in the cafeteria
who sent in the photo.
I'll text them we're coming.
- What are you doing?
- Giving this guy a chance.
He needs a big central line
for fast transfusion.
You can't do an IJ
without an ultrasound.
- especially on a guy this big.
- You'll kill him
if you collapse a lung
or hit the carotid.
I'm not doing an IJ.
Unhook that blood line.
Bring it up here.
This is a supraclavicular
subclavian.
If you have to go in blind.
this is the only safe way
to access a giant vein.
And hold compressions.
A centimeter
from the lateral head
of the sternocleidomastoid.
a centimeter off the clavicle.
aiming
at the contralateral nipple.
I'm in.
Okay. resume compressions.
And squeeze blood.
- Where'd you learn that?
- "EM: RAP" podcast.
We'll be ready for a second
unit in under a minute.
Boom.
Okay. not too much blood
on your dressing. Mr. Grayson.
You're looking good.
Mr. Grayson?
Hey. Mr. Grayson!
Oh.
Oh. I must've dozed off.
This is like a bad dream.
- Yeah. no kidding.
- [exhales deeply]
You. um... did you happen
to see who shot you?
No.
But I heard the shots.
They just kept coming.
gunshots and screaming.
I'm never gonna get that
out of my head.
GSW to the right
inguinal region.
Yeah.
Uh. hi. I'm Dr. Whitaker.
Carmen.
It's. uh. nice to meet you.
Uh...
I'm just gonna take this.
Okay.
- How's the pain?
- I can handle it.
Okay.
What does this..."tem-bleek"?
What does that mean?
Tembleque... it's a coconut
pudding from Puerto Rico.
We top it off
with canela... cinnamon.
Okay. wow.
So you got a food truck?
- Just a folding table for now.
- Pedal pulses are strong.
Okay. let's start
with antibiotics. pain meds.
and let's try to stop
this bleeding.
- [whimpers]
- Okay.
Here we go.
Okay. uh. could you take over?
Thank you. thank you. thank you.
Hey. hey. hey.
Inguinal GSW
with active bleeding.
Um. try an Israeli bandage.
What if it bleeds through?
It's at the top of the leg.
There's no room for
a tourniquet above the wound.
Well. let's just hope
the hemostatic bandage works.
Okay.
Coming in.
Good.
Hey. so...
coconut.
Love coconut.
[both chuckle]
[indistinct chatter]
- Kiara?
- Yes.
This is Lupe.
Whitney. You texted me.
Let's take a walk over here.
Can you tell us
your husband's name?
Vincent Rivera.
We're gonna show you
some photos.
Can you tell us
if this is Vincent?
- He's not talking?
- No. he's not.
Yes. that's Vincent.
Can I see him?
Vincent had a gunshot
to the head.
When he arrived here.
there was no pulse or breathing.
My husband is dead?
- I'm so sorry.
- We're sorry.
[crying]
What about my brother. Brian?
Vincent and Brian went
to the festival together.
Is my brother okay?
Can you send us
his name and photo?
I did.
Okay. well. as of now.
he's not one of our fatalities.
Do you have some relatives
or friends we can call
to come be with you?
[crying]
Our kids are with my parents.
[sobs]
- Second unit's in.
- Holding compressions.
- Carotid pulse... you feeling it?
- I'm feeling it.
He goes right up to pre-op.
Let's go. Let's go.
I need some help over here!
Hey.
Not a person of interest.
Jewelry store owner. no priors.
He's not our shooter.
- You guys good in here?
- We got this.
Take a two-hour lunch.
I'm gonna go check on triage.
We'll save a spot for you.
Yellow gets a wheelchair.
Hey. Ahmad.
what number are we up to?
- 85 patients so far.
- Need a gurney for pink.
- How are you guys doing?
- Still going strong.
- Not bad. I guess.
- You guys are triaging great.
Believe me.
This is not easy.
Not everybody can pull this off.
Is this your half-time
locker room speech?
Yeah. possibly.
Are we winning
or losing the game?
Too soon to tell.
Come on. these heads have
to be up 30 degrees.
- Let's go.
- Got four back here.
[distant sirens wailing]
Through and through the head.
No pulse. Black and white.
Pink zone. Strong pulse.
Unresponsive. no obvious GSW.
Red zone. GSW left chest.
She was talking
when we first got in the truck.
- [tires squeal]
- Weak carotid. unresponsive.
There... there was
so much blood.
- I tried to stop it.
- Jake!
Robby! Leah got shot!
It's really bad!
[helicopter blades whirring
overhead]
I've been putting pressure
on the wound the whole time.
Yeah. that's good.
That's good.
- Are you shot?
- I don't... maybe my leg.
Most of this is her blood.
- Somebody you know. boss?
- Yeah.
- You got this?
Okay. come on. let's go.
Let's go. I got you. Come on.
Ready? Pull.
[distant wailing continues]
- Jake. you can't stay with her.
- I have to.
There's no room. and we need
to work on Leah right now.
and you need to get
your leg checked.
so please go sit down.
Please come tell me
how she's doing. okay?
- Please?
- I will.
- Jake?
- I-I'm okay.
Leah's with Robby.
- Can't feel carotid.
- Start compressions.
Swap out with me.
I need an IO.
Hang a unit of O-neg.
Got the IO.
- Leah?
- Yeah.
- You need help over there?
- No. we're good.
- That's Jake's girlfriend.
- Oh. shit.
- Who's Jake?
- It's. like. Robby's stepson.
I'll be right with you. sir.
My mom would be very happy.
She always says.
wear clean underwear
in case you end up
in the hospital.
Just let us know if anything
is too uncomfortable.
- It's okay.
- This needs to be tighter.
You bled through
the last one pretty fast.
Try a 180-degree twist.
It'll put more pressure.
Got it.
I usually faint
when my blood gets drawn.
Must be all
the adrenaline today.
Whitaker?
Old hippie's looking
pretty out of it.
No. he's sleeping.
- No response to pain.
- Shit.
Uh. Mr. Grayson.
Mr. Grayson.
Could be a delayed head bleed.
He's gonna need a head CT.
He's not getting one
anytime soon.
Equal and reactive.
No blown pupil.
- Santos. go get an attending.
- I'll try. but no promises.
Excuse me.
I think I'm still bleeding.
I'll be with you in a minute.
Pleur-evac ready.
Here you go.
Princess. take over as primary.
- What about Bridget?
- She's stuck in yellow.
- Mel needs an attending.
- Find somebody who's free.
- Let's get blood.
- Dr. Abbot. can you come...
Gonna be a minute.
- Dr. Walsh.
- Taking one up to the OR.
Okay.
Hey. I need a portable
pulse ox for Mr. Grayson.
Here you go.
Hey. what happened to the kid
in the wheelchair
with the bloody right leg?
No idea.
Pinpoint pupils...
probable OD.
Blood on his clothes wasn't his.
- I'll grab some Narcan.
- Sublingual injection.
Okay here?
Uh. looks like
a opioid overdose.
How's Robby with Leah?
If this guy doesn't wake up.
we'll check for occult trauma.
1.400 of blood out the chest.
First unit's in.
Squeeze in a second unit fast.
and then we'll do
another pulse check.
- She's needs a second line?
- For FFP and platelets.
You sure. Robby?
Sophie. get the plasma.
I'm gonna take over
compressions.
And swap.
Social worker
to the south corridor.
Jamie. wheelchair.
You can't be in here.
They're working
on my girlfriend.
I need to see what's going on.
What's going on is.
you're losing a lot of blood.
You're gonna pass out
if we don't stop it.
No. I'm not moving. man!
Leave me alone!
Jake.
get in the damn wheelchair.
- No!
- Now! Go!
[gasps]
[shouting]
Welcome back. sir.
You're in the ER at PTMC.
- What's your name?
- [gasps] Martin.
What'd you take. Martin?
You overdosed at Pitt Fest.
I took one Percocet
so I could dance.
I've got a bad knee.
- Where'd you get the pill?
- [sighs] From a friend.
Okay. while you were
overdosing from the fentanyl
in a fake pill. there was
a mass shooting at Pitt Fest.
- What?
- Hey. Samira.
see if you can go help Mel
in the yellow zone.
Take my new friend
Martin with you.
Javadi. roll with me.
[breathing heavily]
Two units packed cells in.
- FFP still going?
- Almost there.
Okay. holding compressions.
Can't feel carotid.
No femoral.
Resuming compressions.
- What's your next move. boss?
- Platelets. another unit.
And then we can transfuse her
with her own blood
from the Pleur-evac
to get ahead.
Hang the cell saver.
- Squeeze all this in?
- No.
Three-way stopcock
on a 60-cc syringe.
- I'll push-pull.
- Okay.
Not exactly in our
mass casualty game plan.
I tried.
No attendings available.
Okay.
[indistinct chatter]
All right.
Okay. those look
pretty superficial.
Might've been fragments
from a ricochet off the ground.
Lost a lot of blood.
but you're gonna be okay. bro.
It's not bad. Just put me
back in the wheelchair.
No. no. stay in bed
with your leg up.
We don't want you
oozing to death.
Samira. what you got?
Opiate OD
needs observation after Narcan.
Ugh. boring.
No. thank you.
Mel. how's Ganja Grayson?
Um. we can put him in pink
while he waits for ICU.
Okay. one second.
- What are you doing?
- I'm checking the retina.
- For detachment?
- For intracranial pressure
by measuring the optic nerve
sheath. which is...
holy shit... 10 millimeters.
- What's normal? 5?
- Yeah. 5.
It's an intracranial bleed.
The pressure's been building up.
- There's no blown pupil.
- Yeah. not yet.
But if he keeps bleeding
in his skull. he's gonna die.
Yeah. he needs a one-inch.
uh. burr hole in his...
with a cranial drill.
I'm just gonna see
if Neurosurgery's here.
We don't have time
to wait for Neuro.
I got Betadine
and a 10-cc syringe.
Should we intubate. hyperventilate?
Mannitol decreases ICP.
[drill whirring]
- Holy shit!
- What the hell?
[drill thuds]
Relieving intracranial pressure
so he doesn't die.
With an IO drill?
That's sick.
I get the next one.
Long as it's not on me.
Dana. is Neurosurgery down here?
Ask Princess.
- Princess...
- Cardiothoracic ICU.
- I need a neurosurgeon.
- They're all in the OR.
Dr. Walsh. I have an epidural
in the north corridor
with an elevated ICP.
Is there a blown pupil?
No. but a 10-millimeter
optic sheath on the ultrasound.
We need a burr hole.
What the fuck?
Draining the ICH with an EZ-IO.
40 cc's out so far.
- Like she said. what the fuck?
- There was a case report
in the 2022 "Journal
of Emergency Medicine."
Patient survive?
Went home neurologically intact.
The optic sheath
is back to normal.
Starting purposeful movements.
- Ready to intubate.
- Propofol. rock. and mannitol.
I'll let Neurosurgery know.
We'll get him up ASAP.
- Incredible save.
- If he lives.
- Third unit's in.
- Okay. pulse check.
[grunting]
I think I'm feeling a femoral.
I got a carotid.
Emery. I got a chest case.
needs to go to the OR.
I saw you doing CPR
on this girl.
Two liters out
of the left chest.
Got a pulse back
after three packed cells.
600 out of the cell saver.
2 of FFP.
- I'm not feeling it.
- Check the carotid.
[indistinct chatter]
- Nothing. Sorry.
- Resume compressions.
No. no. we should take her up.
She just had a pulse.
Not now. We need a pulse
to go to the OR.
- Call me if anything changes.
- Got a Pink coming in.
Do we have any more
whole blood from the donors?
- Think so.
- Okay. get another unit
that's got platelets and plasma.
- It'll help her clot.
- Got it.
Four units.
Blood is for the ones
we can save.
She is right on the edge.
One more can make
the difference.
I'm in.
Uh. end-tidal looks good.
Okay. OR team can take it
from here.
We need to check on the others.
- I should get back to Pink.
- Stay strong. Crash.
Uh. hemostatic bandage
still in place.
- How you doing. Carmen?
- Not so great.
Okay. let's see.
- Looks arterial.
- Agreed.
Can you stop it?
- Uh. direct pressure for now.
- Yeah.
We may have
a junctional tourniquet
in the disaster supplies.
Can you get that?
Cool.
Um...
Whitaker. in the meantime.
just put pressure on it.
- Try and stop the bleeding.
- For how long?
As long as it takes.
- He bled through his Kerlix.
- Um...
elastic... elastic
pressure dressing.
- Yep.
- Okay. got it.
All right.
Got a better bandage. and we're
gonna elevate your leg.
Do you know what's happening
with my girlfriend?
Her name is Leah.
She was shot in the chest.
I'm sorry.
We have a ton of patients.
and they're only marked
by number.
Robby and Dana were working
on her... they were doing CPR.
How do you know Robby and Dana?
Robby and my mom were
together for a couple years.
and I would... I would come.
and I'd hang out here.
Well. I'm sure
if they're helping her.
then she's in great hands.
Can you check for me. please?
Sure. Of course.
Just after I finish this.
Well. there's no
additional bleeding.
Strong pulse.
Two grams of Ancef running in.
Can you. uh. spread
your fingers?
Uh. no. like this.
Are you okay?
Found the junctional tourniquet.
Um. okay.
Uh. I'll be right back.
How much blood you pushing
off the cell saver?
Every last drop.
O-neg.
Monitor the pulse.
She's stable for trauma ICU
if an OR's not ready.
How many units so far?
Four. plus the cell saver.
- Last one?
- Getting backed up out there.
I don't know.
Dana. why don't we try
a little TXA?
1.000 milligrams of TXA
might help her clot.
Got it.
Bullet tore through her heart.
Anyone else
with a wound like this
is pronounced dead in the field.
You can't keep up
with the blood loss.
If she was our only patient.
we'd do a thoracotomy.
maybe ECMO.
But even then.
I doubt we'd get her back.
We're gonna lose
ten other patients
if you put all your efforts
into saving this girl.
[indistinct chatter]
Got the TXA.
Okay. push it fast.
and we'll do
another pulse check.
And then can you get me
a vascular Doppler too. please?
GSW to the chest. faint pulse.
Intubation. IO. chest tube.
and a unit of blood.
Copy that.
All nonessential personnel.
please report
to the patient waiting room.
All nonessential personnel.
please report
to the patient waiting room.
[indistinct chatter]
Anything I can do?
You can check on Shen
and Ellis in the ambulance bay.
On it.
Whitaker. lay down
some fresh gauze
so we can assess the hemostasis.
Yep.
How you doing. Carmen?
I'm hanging in there.
You want
the circle of compression
directly over the wound.
Tighten.
Inflate the balloon.
Come on. pump it up. Whittaker.
- Uh. how much pressure?
- Until the bleeding stops.
Uh. excuse me. ma'am.
Ma'am. where are you...
uh. Whittaker. stay on this.
Ma'am? Ma'am?
Do you need something?
Are you...
I need one more O-neg.
Hey. do you have
any O-positive over there?
This guy bled
through his bandage.
All available transport
to the ER immediately.
Okay.
Let me just... just put your arm
like that.
Just keep your hand like that.
Just...
- [distant sirens wailing]
- How we doing out here?
Dancing as fast as we can.
Pretty sure I'm past my
union-mandated bathroom break.
I never should have had
that second coffee.
[distant wailing continues]
Hey. son. ER's closed
unless you're injured.
Oh. my mom's inside.
I need to take her home.
- David?
- Mom?
You're the kid?
You need to come with me.
- Hey! Grab him!
- Wait. David! Stop!
- Grab him!
- What are you doing?
- Stay down!
- Don't hurt him!
What the hell's going on?
Four units of packed cells.
two of FFP. 1.000 of TXA...
and 1.200 auto-transfused.
- Did you check this?
- Not yet.
[pulse beating]
Okay. it's working.
Hold compressions.
[pulse beating irregularly]
[tense music]
♪ ♪
Okay. we're done.
[high-pitched ringing]
[machine beeps. flatlines]
We stopped at 19:47.
Hey.
Move her to Pedes?
You want me to go with you
to talk to Jake?
No. no. thanks. I got it.
Jesus Christ.
What's going on?
This is bullshit.
I didn't do anything.
He came back to pick up
his mom... they tackled him.
We need to question him
about the shooting.
Okay.
After we clear him medically.
You know the drill.
He has head trauma...
probable concussion.
Dr. Mohan. why don't we do
a complete neurological exam
in BH-2 and put him
in line for a CT?
We got a Pink coming in.
Where's his mom?
Still outside
talking to the police.
This is fucked up.
I didn't do anything.
Then who shot
all of these people. huh?
I don't know. how about you
go look for him. dumbass?
David. are you all right?
No. man.
I'm fucking far from okay.
Okay. okay. we're gonna
get this straightened out
right now.
[indistinct radio chatter]
I'm still bleeding!
Please. I need something.
No hemotympanum. no head trauma.
Pulse is strong at 72.
O2 sat perfect at 99.
Um. do you need pain medicine?
Ma'am. we're trying to help you.
We just need you to let us know.
Okay. let's try
and find her a gurney
and give her a full neuro exam.
Can you put her in 9?
- Drug overdose?
- No.
Normal pupils. normal pulse.
Brain injury?
No. she was walking
with a steady gait.
Still needs a head CT.
Well. that's not gonna be
for hours.
I could drill EZ-IOs
on both sides.
It worked on the last guy.
Maybe it's PTSD
from all she's seen.
Is Psych even here?
No. but maybe she just needs
a quiet place.
Well. knock yourself out.
What's up. Whitaker?
Junctional tourniquet
appears to be working.
No new blood on the gauze.
You're looking good. Carmen.
Is she... Carmen? Carmen?
Pulse is thready. How long
has she been like this?
She was awake and alert
a minute ago.
All that blood loss
is catching up with her.
Run in a liter wide open.
Uh. huge collection of blood
near the bladder.
The bullet must have
tracked north
and hit the external iliac.
We stopped the bleeding
near the leg.
but she's still bleeding
internally... we need Mel.
No. we need to give
a unit of blood
and move her to the red zone.
Okay. let me see
if they have space.
- Coming through.
- Where's Robby?
In BH-2
with the possible shooter.
Can you guys take a new patient?
Not right now.
What do you got?
Hypotensive pelvic bleed.
Transfuse two units.
We'll get to it.
Abbot!
I got a carotid injury.
popped a clot.
I'll be right there!
Help me out.
- Is that Robby with David?
- Yeah.
I saw the cops bring him in.
Who's David?
High school kid
who was making threats.
- You think he did this?
- Guys. focus on the patients.
What do you got?
Ooh. okay. sterile IV tubing.
umbilical tape.
and red rubber Robinson.
and sterile gloves.
[indistinct radio chatter]
We got a Pink coming in.
Let's take the long way around.
I can put Jake
in the family room.
No. it's okay.
I'll do it.
Defect bypass with IV tubing.
You ever done
a Rummel tourniquet?
Robby. can you help me
with a Rummel?
[indistinct chatter]
Toughest part is getting
the umbilical tape
through the tubing.
And clamps.
- Very cool.
- You guys got this?
Oh. we're good.
Dr. Robby. I have
a retroperitoneal bleed.
- Get Abbot.
- He's busy.
Okay. stabilize
and find a surgeon.
Get in the chair.
Hey. what's going on?
Leah's injuries
were really serious.
She stopped breathing.
We put a tube down her throat
to deliver oxygen.
We were able to drain the blood
that was collapsing her lungs.
We gave her as much blood
as we could.
We even transfused
some of her own blood
that was in her chest.
But we were unable to...
get ahead
of the massive blood loss.
Her heart stopped.
You saw me doing CPR.
[inhales sharply] We did
everything that we could.
She's dead?
[sniffles]
No. no. but I...
'cause I was talk...
I was talking to her
after she got shot.
and she was talking.
Her heart was damaged
beyond repair.
There was nothing
that we could do to save her.
I want to...
I want to see her.
I'm really sorry. man.
but you can't.
Why not?
Because this is an active
police and FBI investigation.
- She's... she's dead.
- I know.
They're gonna release her
to her parents
in a couple days.
No. please. you...
you have to let me see her.
Please. please. please.
Bringing in mail.
- How's she doing?
- Still has a pulse.
- What are you doing?
- Prepping for REBOA.
Are you crazy?
Did Abbot approve this?
He said. do what you have to do.
Attendings are all tied up.
If I can blow up a balloon
in the aorta.
it'll stop the bleeding.
It'll cut off the blood
supply to half her body.
I'll only go in a few inches.
zone three. below the kidneys.
until she gets up to the OR.
Glove up. Huckleberry.
Okay. you're gonna need
an ultrasound. X-ray.
Not today.
Have you done this before?
It's a central line.
I just need to hit
the femoral artery...
like that.
Piece of cake.
All right. guidewire.
then introducer sheath.
Santos is doing a REBOA.
- Oh. no. no. no way.
- Yes way.
Um. no. we need an attending
or a senior resident for that.
Oh. ye of little faith.
Victim identification.
- Are you sure?
- Yes.
- All these people are dead?
- Yeah.
Which one is Leah?
What number do you have
on... on your wrist?
91.
[sighs]
I'm at 15 centimeters
with 5 cc's of saline so far.
A REBOA?
- Are you shitting me?
- I told her to stop.
Uncontrollable bleeding
from a pelvic artery...
no other options.
We need an art line
to know if the BP's up.
We'll go with pulse strength
and mentation.
Carotid's weak.
Radial's barely there.
Another 3 cc's in the balloon.
Injecting.
I'll try for palpable systolic.
Yes. go for it.
Whoa.
Uh. radial's much stronger now.
Lock the balloon.
Check the wound.
Go.
- BP's 110 by palp.
- That'll do.
Yeah. wound's dry.
Barely a trickle.
That's because there's
no blood going to her legs.
Okay. the clock is ticking.
Balloon can stay up
for one hour. tops.
Get IR and Vascular on the case.
- On it.
- [cries]
Hey. hey. hang in there. Carmen.
You're good. okay?
You're good.
Okay. you never should have
done that on your own. ever.
Do you understand?
[whispering]
But that was pretty badass.
You saved her life.
Good job.
[crying]
Did you...
did you call her parents?
They'll give the number
to our social worker.
who will contact them very soon.
I got their daughter killed.
This is not your fault.
[crying]
Why... why couldn't you save her?
I mean. this...
this is what you do.
I tried.
[voice breaking]
I really tried. We all did.
If this had been
any other day. man...
"Had been the other day"?
What the fuck does that mean.
"any other day"?
What. you would've
saved her life?
Yes. No.
I don't know.
I don't... I don't know.
We're getting slammed up there.
We've had dozens
of shooting victims.
You've seen it.
The fact that we've saved
as many people as we have
is a fucking miracle.
But you didn't save Leah.
No.
No. I didn't.
[sniffles]
And I don't know how many
people I've helped today.
but I can tell you every
other person who has died.
[somber music]
♪ ♪
There was a man
named Mr. Spencer.
who died
in front of his children.
and an 18-year-old who...
who was brain dead
from a fentanyl overdose
and a guy with a heart condition
and a little girl who drowned
trying to save her sister.
[sobbing]
And I'm gonna remember Leah
long after you've forgotten her.
Oh. fuck. Oh. fuck.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
You got to go. man.
You... you got to go.
You got to go. You got to go.
Wait. Robby.
Robby. wait. wait.
Put him back in his bed. please.
[high-pitched ringing]
♪ ♪
[sobbing]